---
authors: 
  - kaan
title: Bulgur Cloud is (almost) one
tags:
  - chat
image: pexels-ami-suhzu-3534022.webp
---

Welcome everyone!

![Two people holding a cake with lit candles.](pexels-ami-suhzu-3534022.webp)

Bulgur Cloud is a passion project for me. After finding the existing cloud
storage options lacking -- stuff like Google Drive because I have no control
over my own data, and NextCloud because it is highly complex and hard to run --
I decided to start a new project to solve my woes. That was almost a year ago!

Over the last year, Bulgur Cloud has grown from a barely-functioning demo to
something that is almost good enough to use day-to-day already. While progress
hasn't been incredibly fast, it has been at a steady pace.

<!--truncate-->

But my goal for the future is not to build something that only I use. I will
keep developing Bulgur Cloud even if I'm the only person using it, but I want to
help others take control of their data and enjoy the benefits of self-hosting.
To do that, Bulgur Cloud needs to grow. And not just the codebase gaining new
features, it needs to grow a community of users, developers, of dedicated people
working on it. No great project is ever built by a single person, so I need the
help of other people.

So I've been working on making it possible for people to use Bulgur Cloud. I added this 

To do that, along with improving Bulgur Cloud itself, I've been working on 2
things. One is making it so people can start using Bulgur Cloud. The biggest
part of that so far is this website. While I had started writing some
documentation before, I had not put in the effort to get them published. Now I
have, and you are reading that website!

But Bulgur Cloud is not really ready for prime-time use yet. There are still
some minor bugs, and some functionality doesn't work well. So the other thing is
making it possbile for other people to work on Bulgur Cloud. As one part of
that, I moved the repository into an organization. This was something that would
have needed to happen eventually, and I think it makes sense to do it sooner
than later. I also automated the build process, so it doesn't depend on me
running it on my own computer and any (future) collaborators could run it as
well.

I think Bulgur Cloud is "getting there", and will soon be ready for a general
release.